[dramatic music playing]
[keypad beeping]
[line rings]
[phone rings]
-Harold Cooper.
-Harold. Russ Friedenberg.
-We need to talk.
-Congressman, has something happened?
Things are much worse than we realized.
-Is this about Rakitin?
-No names. They could be listening.
-Who could be listening?
-He's not real. We're being played.
They've got us chasing our tails,
trying to find some hacker, it's a ruse--
-Slow down.
-The phone isn't safe. We need to meet.
-I'll come to your office.
-No. No. Two hours.
I'll text you an address.
[keypad beeps]
My daughter will be home within the hour.
As we agreed, she won't be harmed.
You won't get away with this.
Perhaps not. The outcome is uncertain.
Sadly, you won't get to see how it ends.
Be thankful that you died
of natural causes.
Things can get messy
when we need to send a message.
[groans]
We should be on the ground
in a few minutes.
Good. I just heard from our friend.
We won't need the car,
he'll meet us at the hangar.
Quick pep talk and we'll be heading home.
We flew 5000 miles for a conversation
you could've had on the phone.
He's nervous. You know how he thinks.
Harold's getting closer to Rakitin.
He wants me to look him in the eye
and tell him I have a plan.
Do you?
[Raymond] To make Harold back off?
No, not really.
[Dembe] We have to do something.
If Cooper won't stop, the only move
is to take Rakitin out of play.
Harold has him under surveillance.
It's guesswork at this point,
a hunch the man he's following is Rakitin.
If Rakitin disappeared,
Harold's suspicions would be confirmed.
Besides, Rakitin is one
of our most productive assets.
We need to keep him working.
Even if it puts Cooper in jeopardy?
-[Raymond] Our friend is a reasonable man.
-[Dembe] He's careful.
He's already threatened Cooper's life.
It's only a matter of time.
[Raymond] He won't kill him.
Not without my consent.
-You're spinning too many plates.
-Yes.
If we're lucky, the curtain will close
before anyone sees them
come crashing down.
Dad?
[Rakitin] I'm on schedule.
[Eastern friend] Good. So am I.
I'm going to see Reddington.
[keypad beeps]
Ah. There you are.
Would you care for a coffee or a Scotch?
-We need to talk.
-Please.
[tense music playing]
You're concerned about Harold Cooper.
That's why you called me here,
so I can look you in the eye
and assure you things are under control.
I don't need your assurance.
Things are under control
because I control them.
What are you getting at?
I never liked you working with the FBI,
but at least when we started
you knew what they were,
means to our mutual end.
You've come to care about them in a way
that is detrimental to our objective.
I told you I would handle it.
But you didn't.
Rakitin cannot be arrested.
He must not be interrogated.
You have a deal with the FBI.
Rakitin does not.
-He's exposed.
-[Raymond] You think he'll talk.
[Eastern friend] Don't you?
He doesn't know you work with them.
All he sees is the FBI getting closer
and you refusing to act.
That's why you insisted I come to Moscow.
You wanted me out of the way.
Out of position.
[Eastern friend] Rakitin doesn't just work
for us. He does projects.
Dozens of highly sensitive projects
for the SVR.
If he talks, they're all blown.
Hello?
[horn honks]
[Raymond] Call it off.
Call it off.
It's too late.
There's nothing anyone can do for him now.
Director Cooper?
Who are you?
-Where's the congressman?
-Close.
-Leave the car, I'll take you to him.
-Tell me what is going on.
Leave the car. He sent me to meet you.
Move it.
[suspenseful music playing]
Put him down. I wanna talk to him first.
[Rakitin chuckles]
You wanna know how I found you?
-Uh... I found you.
-I'm an assistant director of the FBI.
The bureau's been looking for Rakitin
for some time.
Looking, with nothing to show for it.
And then, suddenly,
you appear out of nowhere.
[Dembe] They have orders to kill him.
He may already be dead.
We have to call Ressler,
warn the task force.
I told Harold he was in danger.
Stubborn son of a bitch couldn't let go.
Call Rakitin.
[line rings]
[cell phone buzzing]
Not a good time.
You do not have my authorization,
which means whatever pain
you inflict on Cooper
will be revisited upon you tenfold.
-Are we clear?
-I don't need your authorization.
Our Eastern friend gave me
the green light.
I just left our friend.
I told him Cooper was under control.
-Now, you listen to me--
-[Cooper] Why should I tell you anything?
-You'll kill me anyway.
-Ha! Second time I've heard that today.
The congressman asked me
the same question.
-Friedenberg?
-Mm.
You used him to lure me out.
Did you hurt him?
Please. He hardly felt a thing.
And by helping set a trap for you,
he bought himself
a long life for his daughter.
I'll make you the same offer.
If you talk, when we're done here,
I won't go and visit Charlene.
Or your son.
Rakitin can't get arrested.
He knows too much.
We can take care of it
after Cooper is safe.
If you kill me,
the task force I lead will investigate.
-They'll know it was you.
-Mmm.
No. No. They may suspect,
but they won't have proof.
That's why we're here.
To stop you before you can make your case.
And your death won't look like a murder.
You've been depressed, haven't you?
[Rakitin sighs]
Sadly, it's all too common among men
who work in law enforcement.
You wrote a note
before taking your own life.
See, that's where the carbon monoxide
comes into the scene.
You left your car running
in a closed garage.
About an hour from now,
you will be found dead,
your lungs filled with fumes.
[cell phone buzzing]
Yes?
If you're gonna kill him,
at least squeeze him first.
Ah, I knew you'd come around.
He runs a secret task force.
The bureau doesn't even
acknowledge it exists.
I wanna know everything
they're working on.
-Be sure you get details.
-Consider it done.
Did you get that?
[computer beeps]
We got it. A warehouse on Fullerton.
Go now.
Or he won't be alive when you get there.
[suspenseful music playing]
[coughing and wheezing]
Okay, now let's try this one more time.
Who told you about the stolen files?
The ones I placed
on the Volgograd servers.
Nobody.
[coughing]
I want a name!
I fed you a suspect,
I gave you every reason
to believe Rakitin was dead,
and yet you persisted.
Why?
Because we're the FBI.
[groans]
Finish him.
You know where to take him.
Make sure the police find the note.
-Cooper!
-[man] We're clear!
Hey, Cooper!
[gasping]
[Aram] Mr. Cooper.
Thank God you're all right.
I heard what happened.
Put him in Box 1.
Call Panabaker.
Tell her I need her here right away.
You should let us get you a medic.
-Sir.
-[cell phone ringing]
Harold. Thank goodness.
-You knew nothing about this?
-Of course not.
I helped the task force find you.
If you think that changes things,
you're wrong.
We have Rakitin. I'm not standing down.
-If he implicates you--
-You'll follow the evidence.
I have no doubt you will.
We can worry about that another time.
-[call waiting beeps]
-Ah.
That's me. I need to take this.
Deep breaths, Harold.
I'm glad you're alive.
-They have Rakitin in custody!
-Couldn't be avoided.
It could've been if you'd listened to me.
He's one of our top operatives
and you hand-delivered him
to the American government.
I can see I've made
a mistake with you, old friend.
We've been on the same side so long,
you've forgotten who you're talking to.
[Eastern friend]
You're the one forgetting.
If he talks, if he exposes me,
exposes what he's done for the SVR,
the full weight of this agency
will come down on you like a thunderbolt.
That won't happen.
Because here's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to fix it.
And then, when it's done,
you and I are gonna have a chat.
We can't break him out.
He's under guard at the Post Office.
Raymond, it's impossible.
[suspenseful music playing]
[cell phone dials, then line rings]
[cell phone buzzing]
Why are you calling?
-Just listen.
-Elizabeth was clear.
You were only to reach out
in an emergency.
Don't trace this.
Signal's untraceable,
I'm losing this phone in 30 seconds.
Skip, stop talking.
I need to speak with Keen.
Tell her to call me.
Or get me a number where I can call her.
What's happened?
The situation here changed.
If things go well,
we may be getting close to the end.
The end of what?
Reddington.
We may be able to prove
she was right all along.
I'm talking about bringing her in,
on her own terms.
[Panabaker] My God, Harold.
I can't imagine.
If you need time,
whatever I can do to make things easier--
I appreciate your concern.
But I have a feeling
when you hear why it happened,
sympathy may not be
the first emotion that comes to mind.
Oh... It's not my first rodeo, partner.
You've been hiding something,
I've known for a while.
Something big.
The real reason Keen went out on her own.
She saw Reddington kill her mother,
that's enough.
That's half the story.
And to tell it,
we have to go back over 30 years
to the fall of the Soviet Union.
Around that time a file was stolen
from Soviet intelligence.
A blackmail file
consisting of 13 packets of data.
Damaging intel on rival governments,
secrets held by some of the most powerful
people and corporations.
-Who stole it?
-An unidentified Russian operative.
Thirteen packets so, after the theft,
the Russians began calling him N-13.
The stolen file is the Sikorsky Archive.
I'm gonna need a scratch pad.
That's where Neville Townsend comes in.
He was one of the powerful people
named in the Archive.
As a result, his family was killed.
He put a bounty on the head
of the woman he thought was responsible.
Katerina Rostova.
Exactly.
Agent Keen's mother ran for 30 years.
All the while, insisting she was framed,
set up by the real N-13.
Not Reddington.
Please don't say Reddington.
That's what Agent Keen believes.
Her mother found proof,
but Reddington killed her
before she could release it.
Keen believes he's a Russian spy.
A plant sent to infiltrate
our intelligence agencies
and execute some endgame.
-You believe her?
-I didn't at first, but...
now I think she may be right.
The man we arrested today
is Andrew Patterson,
but the Russians call him Rakitin.
He's feeding intel to N-13.
Clearly, he works with or for Reddington.
Let me get this straight.
You're saying our confidential informant,
the man we officially gave
blanket immunity,
is actually a Russian sleeper agent?
Quite possibly.
[cell phone buzzes]
-Keen?
-I can give you a number.
Leave a message
and Elizabeth will hear it.
-I need to talk to her.
-That was conveyed.
She gave clear instructions.
-She didn't trust me?
-She does, I don't.
I told her to ignore you.
Now, do you want the number or not?
Shoot.
In a way,
you were right to try to kill me.
I wouldn't have stopped.
Not until I knew the truth
and you were in that chair.
But Friedenberg...
he was a politician, not an agent.
Killing him was unnecessary.
-[Rakitin] How did your people find us?
-[Cooper] That's two murders.
The congressman and the suspect...
How did you put it?
...you "fed" to us as a misdirect.
I'm sitting here, doing the math.
I just can't make sense of it.
Add to that the attempted murder
of a federal agent,
at least a dozen intrusions
into government servers,
the theft of confidential intelligence,
and the treason.
It wasn't one of my people.
Only two of them knew of our location,
and your agents killed them.
How long have you been spying
for the Russians?
It doesn't matter. We'll find out.
As we speak, agents are taking apart
your home and office,
scrubbing every device,
document and drive.
-I should've just shot you.
-And you know the best part?
You were right, our case wasn't there yet.
By coming after me,
you made it so much easier, Mr. Patterson.
[Raymond on recording]
He runs a secret task force.
The bureau doesn't even
acknowledge it exists.
I wanna know everything
they're working on.
-Be sure you get details.
-[Park] So it's true.
Keen was right. Reddington is N-13.
How is this possible? Mr. Reddington
knew how to contact Rakitin.
He has been playing us this whole time...
for the Russians? I just--
I don't understand it.
You think this means
Keen can come in from the cold?
I don't know.
She tried to kill Reddington.
She got the Freelancer out to target
a plane full of innocent passengers.
Yeah, but she warned us
in time to save them.
But what if we didn't?
I don't know.
Maybe there's a way. I just--
One thing is for sure, if Rakitin talks
and confirms Mr. Reddington is
on some Russian mission,
say goodbye to his immunity deal.
You think that could happen?
I don't think anyone could stop it
from happening.
[cell phone ringing]
-You're calling me?
-[Raymond] Agent Park.
You seem surprised.
I thought we were colleagues.
-What do you want?
-Payback.
That favor you owe me,
it's time to collect.
-I can't help you.
-Oh, yes, you can.
And you will.
We need to meet.
Dembe will send you an address.
Leave now, we don't have much time.
-[electronic voice] Record at the tone.
-[voicemail beeps]
Hey, Keen, it's me.
I know you don't wanna talk in person,
maybe 'cause you think I'm angry,
but I'm not.
I don't understand
all the choices you've made.
Townsend's a killer.
He put a bounty on your mother's head,
now he's your partner. Where does it stop?
It has to stop.
We have Rakitin, thanks to you,
and that flash drive you sent Cooper.
If Reddington's really N-13,
we have a good chance of proving it.
And if we can, maybe you can come home.
It's all I care about, Liz.
Maybe you can't be an agent again,
but at least you can get your life back,
you and Agnes can be together.
The point is, I'm here,
and I'm still on your side.
We gotta talk, figure out how to end this.
I'm gonna be at Bentham Park
at midnight. Meet me there.
And, Keen, you can trust me.
[Raymond] Ah. So you're outside Coatti's?
[Park] Yeah. After a 40-minute drive.
Are you inside? What are we doing?
Oh, dear, I'm sorry.
I'm afraid I gave you the false impression
we were going on this field trip together.
We're not.
I'll be guiding you through this remotely.
I'm sure I don't need to remind you
of our little arrangement.
-You asked me to make a man disappear.
-I know what happened.
That's no small thing, am I right?
Erasing a human being from existence.
In your case, someone capable of ending
your career and sending you to prison.
At the time, if you remember,
I warned you
that repayment might be unpleasant.
Yeah, fine.
What does that have to do with you
sending me here to this garage?
Agent Park,
please, just watch and wait for it.
Wait for what? What's wrong with you?
-What are you talking about?
-Wait for it.
Wait.
[Park] You sent men to Jenna's apartment?
[dramatic music playing]
-Dieterle.
-Yahtzee! Yes!
Mr. Mason Dieterle in the flesh.
Ladies and gentlemen,
we have a winner. Agent Alina Park.
-I thought you took care of him.
-And that's exactly what I did.
You didn't ask me to kill him,
you asked me to make him go away.
We gave him a new identity,
relocated him outside the city.
He resisted at first,
but we can be very persuasive.
-How does he look?
-Why would you do this?
For this very moment.
It occurred to me that you might need
some additional motivation.
So do as you're told
and Mr. Dieterle remains a ghost.
Refuse, and hallelujah, he's born again.
Are you surprised?
What if I take my chances?
It's my word against his.
That occurred to me as well.
If you'd be so kind
as to check the video in your inbox.
Screw that.
Oh, my gosh, this is fun.
What the hell do you want me to do?
Rakitin's being guarded.
I can't get you in,
and there's no way to break him out.
Right? It's a puzzle.
Go back to the office.
When my plan's in place, we'll reconvene.
And I promise you,
it'll be even more exciting.
Oh, my stars and garters,
I so love surprises.
-[keypad beeps]
-Heh.
[suspenseful music playing]
Not yet. Out.
Class doesn't begin
for another seven minutes.
My God. It really is you.
I'm sorry.
The front office is down the hall.
Cvetko said you were teaching.
High school biology and chemistry?
That's admirable
for a man of your talents.
Cvetko? I'm not sure
who you've mistaken me for.
My name is Geoffrey Hill. Have we met?
Just once.
Don't feel badly, it was years ago.
But it's why I know
your name is Felix Klopp.
Ah! Hold on, this might help.
Reddington.
[laughing] Dembe,
we're in the presence of greatness.
The gas in the air ducts
at that military prison in Ankara? Felix.
[Dembe] Ah, yes.
You built the device
that sucked all the oxygen
out of the dining car
on the Kowloon Express.
-Yes.
-[Dembe laughs]
[Dembe] Who was that for?
No, no, no, don't tell us.
It had to be MI6.
All the gadgets you've built for them
over the years...
That was a long time ago. I'm retired.
Well, not entirely.
Cvetko mentioned you still occasionally
do side jobs when the money's right.
I see.
What exactly is it
that you think I could do?
What you always do. The impossible.
There's a man being interrogated
in a highly secure room,
heavily guarded, no way in or out.
I want to remove him.
A breakout?
Well, if that's what you think is best.
I'm open to ideas.
But the important thing is that the man
cannot be given any chance to cooperate.
I may have an idea.
But it's dangerous. Risky.
It would take time to create,
and I'm giving a quiz
on covalent bonds in ten minutes.
No, Felix, you're not.
School's out for today.
Now, tell me about your idea.
[Cooper] Amazing how life goes.
A few hours ago, you almost killed me,
now you're the one in mortal danger.
Am I?
I wouldn't wanna be you.
With the work you've done?
How do you think Russian intelligence
feels about you being in FBI custody?
Even if you don't talk,
you know they won't risk it.
Their best choice is to eliminate you
as a variable.
Ah, I see. This is the part
where you claim you can protect me.
And let me guess,
all I need to do to earn your mercy
is tell you everything I know.
No. I don't care
about everything you know.
Right now all I care about is N-13.
I wanna know the endgame.
What was N-13 sent to do?
You asked me how my people found us.
The answer is, they didn't.
Reddington gave you up.
Harold.
That's a lie.
You don't know anything
about the man you're protecting.
[Raymond on recording]
He runs a secret task force.
The bureau doesn't even
acknowledge it exists.
-I wanna know everything.
-Don't do it.
Be sure you get details.
[Rakitin] Consider it done.
[Raymond] Did you get that?
[Aram] We got it.
They're at a warehouse on Fullerton.
[Raymond] Go now. Or he won't be alive
when you get there.
-Why would he do that?
-We need to talk.
Stop protecting him.
He doesn't care about you.
-You're a pawn. He sacrificed--
-We need to talk now.
-You wanna tell me what you were doing?
-I had to do something.
You came close
to exposing Reddington as our informant.
-I don't care. He has answers we need.
-You don't care?
Who am I talking to now,
Harold Cooper or Elizabeth Keen?
[Cooper] Did you see the look
on his face? It worked, Cynthia.
He's thrown, he wants to talk.
There is a difference
between talking and telling the truth.
The Cooper I know understands that.
Meaning what?
You think Reddington's innocent?
-He's not N-13?
-I don't know.
But now, whatever Rakitin tells us,
we're gonna have to wonder if it's true
or just a way to get revenge
on Reddington.
We are missing something.
If Reddington really is N-13,
why did he save you?
Why hand us
one of his chief collaborators?
You do. You think I'm wrong.
Maybe. And you know my best argument?
Rakitin's still sitting in that room.
You think if he knew the truth,
Reddington would ever allow that?
Don't you think he'd be trying to stop it?
Has he said anything?
Not yet. If he doesn't talk soon,
the plan is to transport him
to a black site by morning.
-Then we need to act quickly.
-How? I can't break him out.
-I'm not asking you to.
-Then what?
I can't hurt him. I won't.
Tell Cooper about Dieterle, I don't care.
Really. What do you imagine
I'd have you do?
Shoot the man in cold blood?
All you have to do
is pass along these instructions.
Instructions to do what?
You can't break him out.
The less you know, the better.
Do not read it. Don't even open it.
I'm very serious.
The instructions it contains
are for Rakitin's eyes only.
He's locked down. How do I get it to him?
-That part's up to you.
-After? What happens then?
Burn the evidence.
As I said, the less you know, the better.
Whatever happens,
it's my doing, not yours.
Now, wish us luck.
We're all going to need it.
[dramatic music playing]
You asked to see me?
-I've decided to make a statement.
-Is that so?
What, may I ask, changed your mind?
I know why Reddington gave me up.
To punish me for my disobedience.
You see,
I asked for his permission to kill you.
But he refused,
he said he'd handle it himself.
And when he didn't,
I took matters into my own hands.
To him, that deserves a death sentence.
It doesn't matter what our history is,
I defied him, so I am expendable.
I see.
And now he expects me to stay quiet.
To take my punishment like a man,
to go to prison for my sins.
If that's what he expects,
then he's about to find out
just how wrong he is.
We can try to protect you.
No, we're well past that.
He destroyed my life
when he made that phone call.
And now it's my turn
to inflict a little damage,
which includes my very educated guess
that he is your informant.
That's how they found us.
That little recording you played,
the one your boss didn't want me to hear,
you got that from Reddington, didn't you?
Because he works for you.
I'll make the arrangements.
[door opens, then closes]
[suspenseful music playing]
This should work.
Make sure he signs it before we start.
-What is it?
-Insurance.
I want it in writing
that he wasn't promised anything.
If he recants later, it may help.
I'll take it to him.
-[electronic voice] Record at the tone.
-[voicemail beeps]
Hey, Keen, it's me.
It's happening. Rakitin's agreed to talk.
Cooper's about to take his statement.
Look, this could be all over soon.
I'll be there tonight. Bentham Park.
It's a document you need to sign
before we start.
It confirms your statement is voluntary.
Listen to me. Look down.
Underneath, there's something
I was asked to give you.
Instructions from Reddington.
Reddington sent you?
[softly] Keep your voice down.
We don't have much time.
He said it would give you instructions.
-What kind of instructions?
-I don't know. I haven't read it.
He was very clear.
Whatever it says is for your eyes only.
When you're done, put it back.
[scoffs]
What the hell is this? Some kind of joke?
Huh?
Okay, well, I don't know
what kind of games you're playing,
but, uh, next time you see Reddington,
you can tell him to go to hell.
I'm ready to talk.
[door opens, then closes]
Raymond, relax. It will work.
I never wanted this.
For any of them.
Cooper, Park, Rakitin.
Oh, boy.
You saved Harold's life.
It was the right choice.
[Cooper] Let's do this.
Bring him in.
[suspenseful music playing]
I'm Harold Cooper,
assistant director of the FBI.
We're here with Mr. Andrew Patterson,
also known by the code name Rakitin.
You've been advised of your rights
and have decided to make
a voluntary statement?
[clears throat] That's correct.
Tell us who you work for.
Officially?
The Office of Intelligence and Analysis,
a division of Homeland Security.
Whoever delivers the envelope
must not touch the letter, understood?
Under any circumstances. Any.
And once he's handled it?
[Klopp] It won't take long.
Unofficially, you've been working as a
covert operative for Russian intelligence?
[clears throat] For several years, yes.
Specifically, the SVR. Among other groups.
I'm gonna cut right to the chase.
You're familiar with the fugitive
Raymond Reddington--?
[choking]
The agent is structurally similar
to the VX compound but more potent.
I can't-- I can't breathe.
Oh, my God. Get a medic here.
Ressler, don't touch him.
[gasping]
Odorless. Evaporates much like water.
The longer he touches the letter,
the faster the toxin will have its effect.
Code black. Code black.
This is Agent Mojtabai in the War Room.
Get a med team in here now!
[dramatic music playing]
[Cooper] Fine.
Reddington's in the building.
He's on his way.
He's here?
I think I know, but what exactly
are we saying just happened?
-Cynthia.
-He killed that man.
Is that what we're saying?
Reddington somehow got to him
and murdered our witness in front of us?
What's the alternative?
Natural causes? He was poisoned.
How? He's been in custody
and isolated for hours.
-He was fine a few minutes ago.
-I don't know.
Maybe the medical examiner
can help us understand how.
I'll tell you, if he did it,
that smug son of a bitch has a set
of Rocky Mountain oysters.
And to walk in here right after?
Would he do that?
Agent Park. Going down or up?
I killed him. Rakitin's dead.
You didn't kill anyone.
I told you, whatever happened
was my doing, not yours.
I'm an accessory to murder.
Interesting. I don't recall you
being so concerned
about the idea when you thought
Mr. Dieterle was being killed.
They'll investigate.
We won't get away with it.
Nonsense. Can they prove
you gave Rakitin the letter?
No.
And the letter now?
I have it.
Then I suggest you light a match
and destroy it.
Carefully, of course.
I have to tell Cooper.
Now, that would be ironic.
You got into this mess because you didn't
wanna end your career and go to prison.
What do you think will happen
if you confess now?
[knocking on door]
Cynthia.
I didn't know you were here.
I came by to see how
Harold's interrogation was progressing,
but it appears things have taken
a most surprising turn.
-Did you kill him?
-Harold.
I'm asking you.
You're certain he was murdered?
I once knew a team of Chechens,
all seven had a ricin bean
embedded in a hollowed-out rear molar--
It's just a game to you, isn't it?
A game?
I warned you, Harold.
I explicitly told you that pursuing this
could prove to be deadly.
I told you I'm not afraid of your threats.
But you should be afraid.
I saved you today.
But what about tomorrow?
Do you really think
the people who Rakitin worked for
will just allow you to expose them?
So he was killed.
I'm not your enemy.
And whether you believe it or not,
you are both safer today
because you didn't hear
what Rakitin had to say.
[Panabaker] We're launching
an investigation.
If it proves you were involved,
you have my word,
we will invalidate your immunity deal
and you will go to prison.
[Raymond] So you think someone got to him?
Could be.
Though if you're right, it would have
to have been one of your own people.
If I were you, I'd run
with the ricin-bean-in-the-molar theory.
Speaking of running,
I have an appointment.
Please, excuse me.
To the artist formerly known as Rakitin.
He was an artist, Raymond.
The best we've ever used by far.
He won't be easy to replace.
No, I know.
Truth is, I never trusted or liked him.
He was just a spy. Spineless. Nameless.
Completely lacking in conviction
and character.
There are others.
[Eastern friend in Russian]
Reddington! You arrogant son of a bitch.
Making me fly all the way out here.
You killed Rakitin?
Do you have any idea what you've done?
[in English] This is how you handle it?
By killing our most valuable--
[dramatic music playing]
-You hit me.
-Let me be perfectly clear.
I don't give a damn who you work for.
The next time you threaten me
with the full weight of the SVR,
I'll take that thunderbolt you mentioned
and crack it so far up your ass,
it'll be the last thing you see or hear.
Clear enough?
Nod if you understand. Good.
Now understand this:
Rakitin's death was your doing.
I hold you responsible
for what is, by any account,
a catastrophic setback for all of us.
You think I'm too close to Cooper?
Too emotionally involved
with the task force?
You better look deep inside yourself
and find a way to accept it.
Because that, old friend,
is way beyond your purview.
This is my endgame.
And you will not interfere with it again.
[Eastern friend] We had
a dozen ongoing projects with him.
All in progress.
All of them lost.
Whose fault is that?
You've been with me a long time.
And I value our friendship
above most things.
But we're nearing the end now.
And nothing is more important than that.
Than what?
The end.
[somber music playing]
♪ Now my youth... ♪
-[electronic voice] Record at the tone.
-[voicemail beeps]
Hey, Keen, it's me.
I'm here, but you're not.
I don't even know
if you're getting these messages.
I don't know who I'm talking to.
Anyway, it's probably best
you didn't show.
Thing is, I don't have good news.
Look, Rakitin's dead.
I don't know how, but someone got to him.
Probably Reddington.
The ME,
we don't have word from his office,
but seems like he was poisoned.
Cooper's losing his mind.
I mean, we all are, but...
♪ We've been waiting... ♪
I mean, we really thought
it was over this time.
We miss you. We just want you back.
[keypad beeps]
[Ressler on voicemail] Cooper's losing
his mind. I mean, we all are, but...
[sighs] I mean, we really thought
it was over this time.
We miss you. We just want you back.
[engine starts]
[closing theme playing]